SOURCE: Rate My Professors — Prof. Lawrence Nelson (Philosophy / Ethics), Santa Clara University
URL: https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/professor/13997
Rating: 4.0/5 | Difficulty: 3.8/5 | Would Take Again: 57.1%

REVIEW 1 (PHIL30, Oct 2, 2025) — Grade A:
"Class requires a lot of reading, and it's important to do them because there's usually a reading quiz every class. First essay grade was definitely harsh, but he's very helpful during office hours for improving your writing/arguments. He wants his students to succeed and improve so go to office hours!" Tags: Get ready to read, Participation matters, Accessible outside class

REVIEW 2 (PHL, Dec 19, 2024):
"Nelson is a great professor and very knowledgeable about what he teaches, especially relating to law classes. Gives a lot of reading and pop quizzes so be prepared for those. Grade primarily on a few essays that don't really build upon what is taught in class but do relate. Final is take home and very long with a ton of parts. Funny and great prof." Tags: Get ready to read, Amazing lectures, Beware of pop quizzes

REVIEW 3 (PHILOSOPHY, Dec 12, 2024) — Grade C+:
"DO NOT TAKE THIS PROFESSOR. I signed up for this class seeing all these positive reviews but i was extremely wrong. While the material is interesting, Professor Nelson is an extremely unreasonable grader. He is harsh and unclear with the criteria for content. Literally will nitpick anything. JUST DON'T TAKE THIS CLASS." Tags: Tough grader, Lots of homework, Test heavy

REVIEW 4 (PHILOSOPHY, Nov 11, 2024):
"Wouldn't post anything on Camino. You have to go to office hours. Harsh grader and has favorites in the class." Tags: Tough grader, Get ready to read, Participation matters

REVIEW 5 (PHIL30, Apr 5, 2023) — Grade A:
"He is extremely knowledgeable about the subject and fosters a great classroom environment full of good discussion. However, his criteria for how he grades papers is not extremely clear, and it was definitely a lot more work than a lower-division usually is. Overall he is an excellent professor, he just requires a lot of work weekly." Tags: Tough grader, Get ready to read, Participation matters

SUMMARY: Professor Lawrence Nelson teaches PHIL30 (Philosophy/Ethics) at SCU. Strong subject knowledge but polarizing grader — unclear rubrics, harsh on essays, pop quizzes at nearly every class. Does not post materials on Camino (SCU's LMS); office hours are essential. Final exam is take-home and lengthy. Named one of SCU's top 10 professors by The Santa Clara newspaper for challenging students to reach their potential.
