SOURCE: Rate My Professors — Prof. Kirk Glaser (English / Creative Writing), Santa Clara University
URL: https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/professor/664664
Rating: 4.5/5 | Difficulty: 2.1/5 | Would Take Again: 100%

REVIEW 1 (ENGL71, Mar 28, 2026) — Grade A:
"Professor Glaser is the best. Kind, calm, down-to-earth, reasonable expectations, lots of freedom to be creative and write what you want for the class. Workload was very manageable but it still felt like a real class. Super positive experience." Tags: Caring, Respected

REVIEW 2 (ENGL72, Jan 28, 2026) — Grade A-:
"Professor Glaser really tries to foster a supportive community and really cares about everyone in the class. The assignments are light and fun, and he doesn't ask much except that you try. Even if you have no background in poetry, you'll hopefully learn something about yourself." Tags: Clear grading criteria, Gives good feedback, Caring

REVIEW 3 (ENGL91, Mar 14, 2025):
"I took him for Literary Magazine Production, which was only once a week, Pass/Fail. The class felt more like a club meeting; just discussing some fiction and poetry for an hour, whether we liked it or not and why. If you like reading and analysis, I'd recommend taking this! Very, very laid-back and lowkey." Tags: Hilarious, Respected

REVIEW 4 (ENGL72, Feb 26, 2025) — Grade A:
"While he does expect a lot from you in terms of what you produce each class, making progress never feels like too much at once, and he gives great feedback. He also relies a lot on peer feedback, so look for responsible students to pair up with early on. Glaser meets 1-on-1, so prepare." Tags: Gives good feedback, Lots of homework, Caring

REVIEW 5 (ENG1, May 1, 2024) — Grade A:
"Literally the best teacher I've ever had. So smart and helpful and his classes are incredibly unique. Gives thoughtful feedback and is just a great guy." Tags: Amazing lectures, Caring, Respected

SUMMARY: Professor Kirk Glaser teaches ENGL71, ENGL72 (Creative Writing: Poetry/Fiction), and ENGL91 (Literary Magazine Production) at SCU. 100% would-take-again. Known for low-pressure, creative-freedom environment. Gives thoughtful 1-on-1 feedback. ENGL91 is pass/fail and very relaxed. One of SCU's most beloved English professors, especially for students without a writing background.
