SOURCE: Rate My Professors — Prof. Stephen Carroll (English), Santa Clara University
URL: https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/professor/406086
Rating: 3.6/5 | Difficulty: 4.1/5 | Would Take Again: 48%

REVIEW 1 (ENG1A, Mar 9, 2026) — Quality 2, Difficulty 5:
"All of the reviews are right, he makes you learn a new style of writing, and it is easier to write the initial essays but it is so un-useful because you will never use it again in your entire life. Your grades on your writing all really depend if you go to his office hours. It is SO much work, I wish you luck."

REVIEW 2 (ENGL100, Dec 19, 2025) — Quality 5, Difficulty 2, Grade A:
"From the very first day, he clearly sets expectations and makes it clear that this class gives you the opportunity to change the world. He genuinely cares about his students and wants nothing more than to see them succeed. However, if you choose not to put in the work, you won't get anything out of the course. Take his class!"

REVIEW 3 (ENG1A, Dec 12, 2025) — Quality 1, Difficulty 5:
"This professor is one of the rudest professors in his grading. He created a style of writing and expects you to completely change your style to match his style. If you can't, then you're going to get a D at best in his class. Each essay was followed up with his 'notes' on the essay, each one is an attack much more personal than professional."

REVIEW 4 (ENGL1, Oct 27, 2025) — Quality 1, Difficulty 5:
"The amount of effort you'll have to put into this class is insane for one of your intro core class, you're better off switching professors. He forces you to learn an entirely new system of writing just for his class, I dropped this because it was difficult to learn and he didn't give many examples in class of what good writing looked like."

REVIEW 5 (ENG1, Apr 4, 2025) — Quality 2, Difficulty 5:
"I will say 'good' if the class is not such a mess. I mean you get something graded 3 months after, a 15-page paper delayed for a whole quarter, and module description that simply just doesn't match lecture. Also, 3-4 hour-long office hours are to be expected. Listen, there is a reason why the class starts with some 30 students and ends with not even 10."

STUDENT NEWSPAPER QUOTE (The Santa Clara):
"Stephen Carroll will rip your writing apart and force you to stitch it back together." — Kathryn Hackett, senior

SUMMARY: Professor Carroll teaches ENG1A (Critical Thinking and Writing) at SCU. He is known for teaching a unique writing style that students find difficult and unconventional. Grades heavily depend on office hours attendance. Class has high attrition. Difficulty is consistently rated 4-5/5.
