SOURCE: Rate My Professors — Prof. Sumana Sur (OMIS / Operations & Management Information Systems), Santa Clara University
URL: https://www.ratemyprofessors.com/professor/125677
Rating: 3.2/5 | Difficulty: 2.8/5 | Would Take Again: 57%

REVIEW 1 (OMIS15, Apr 8, 2026) — Quality 1, Difficulty 5, Grade C:
"Bad professor, would not recommend. She is not good at teaching, and the material is way too hard to understand; it is literally supposed to be an introductory class!" Tags: Tough grader, Test heavy

REVIEW 2 (OMIS15, Mar 21, 2026) — Quality 2, Difficulty 2, Grade B-:
"don't choose"

REVIEW 3 (OMIS15, Mar 10, 2026) — Quality 5, Difficulty 1, Grade A:
"Professor Sur is the best! Engaging lectures, plenty of help available and lots of office hours. Pretty much always able to figure out how to fix mistakes in a worksheet. Wish I could take her for every OMIS course." Tags: Hilarious, Accessible outside class, Online Savvy

REVIEW 4 (OMIS15, Mar 6, 2026) — Quality 4, Difficulty 3, Grade B+:
"Having a friend in this class highly recommended because once you fall behind it is hard to catch back up in the lectures. Her patterns of responding to emails is spotty. Unfortunately, I got a B+ in the class, even though I got near perfect grades on the quizzes and the midterm, because of the final." Tags: Tough grader

REVIEW 5 (OMIS15, Mar 3, 2026) — Quality 5, Difficulty 2, Grade A:
"Very caring professor who wants her students to succeed. There are weekly hw assignments along with a discussion post. 2 midterms, a group project, and a final exam. If you pay attention in class and ask her for help you can get an A. I recommend office hours for this class they helped me a lot." Tags: Clear grading criteria, Caring, Online Savvy

SUMMARY: Professor Sur teaches OMIS15 (introductory operations/information systems) at SCU. Reviews are polarized — some students love her engaging lectures and availability, others find her a tough grader whose emails go unanswered. Course structure: weekly homework, discussion posts, 2 midterms, group project, final. Final exam has significant grade impact. Office hours are highly recommended.
